# pCNVScan
A tool for computing Copy Number Variation in polyploid genomes

# Instalation

The following software needs to be installed :
- gcc (v. 4.8.4 or later)
- gbfp (http://code.google.com/p/gbfp/)

See the INSTALL file for detailed information about how to configure
and install CNVScan.

# Manual
CNVScan is a tool for detecting copy number variation in a genome 
alignment from NGS studies.
It extract coverage from a .pileup file and annotate copy number 
variations with a reference file.

INPUT REQUIRED:

- a .pileup file. Can be generated by samtools mpileup (http://www.htslib.org/)
- a .gbk reference file OR a .fasta and a .gff file. 
The reference file is for the annotation of the features. 
You choose option -i or both -g -f.

OUTPUT:

A file with a list of genes with number of copy between 0 and inf. 0 mean 
a deletion, 2 a duplication, etc.


USAGE:

All options:
-p String [REQUIRED]. Path to a valid .pileup file. The alignment must have been done on the same reference as the reference file.
-o String [REQUIRED]. Path to the output file. Output a list of copy numbers by genes.
-i String [OPTIONAL]. Path to a valid input .gbk reference file. No fasta file required.
-g String [OPTIONAL]. Path to a valid .gff reference file. If set you have to give also a fasta file in -f option.
-f String [OPTIONAL]. Path to a valid .fasta file. Should be the same reference as the .gff file.
-s Integer [OPTIONAL]. Pattern size for iterative search. Default: 6.
-h Print this help and exit.

Usage: $ CNVScan -s [int Pattern size] -i [.gbk reference file] -p [Pileup sample file] -o [Output file]
Exemple: $ CNVScan -p sample.pileup -f reference.fasta -g reference.gff -o sampleCNVScan.txt

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>
